#Location of VMware App Volumes log files (2091590)

This article provides details on troubleshooting an App Volumes environment using the App Volumes logs.

Note: This article references shell folders and shell folder variables. If you have performed a custom installation, your installation may differ and your log files may not be available in the path mentioned in this article. These logs location are discussed in this Knowledge Base:

* App Volumes Manager
* App Volumes Agent
* App Volumes log files

This section discusses the log files you can use to troubleshoot an App Volumes issue, and what to look for in the logs. The relevant log files are:

* App Volumes Manager logs
* App Volumes Agent log files
* ESXi logs

##App Volumes Manager logs

The App Volumes Manager log files are:
* production.log
* svmanager_server.log
* These log files are located at C:\Program Files(x86)\CloudVolumes\Manager\Log on the App Volumes Manager server. You can also access the production.log at http://AppVolumes ManagerFQDN:port number/log . You do not need to specify the port number unless it is a custom install.


###App Volumes Manager production.log

The App Volumes Manager server contains logging from the main modules of App Volumes. Use the production.log file to identify a variety of issues in an App Volumes environment.

Here is a description of the main modules to search for in the production.log  file.
RADIR :RubyActiveDIRectory classes – Responsible for AD connection
Cvo :App Volumes logic classes
RvSphere :RubyvSphere wrapper classes
SQL :Database queries (Default logging captures only errors. Debug logging captures queries and errors)
PowerShell :App Volumes PowerShell interface classes
NTLM :App Volumes NTLM handler
Each line in the production.log  file gives the Process ID (PID) and informs us whether it is a request or a delayed job. An active request is denoted by PxxxxRxx, and a delayed job is denoted by PxxxxDJ. Here are excerpts from the production.log  file. 

[2015-1-30 15:31:31] P3488DJ INFO Cvo: Uploading file: "C:/Program Files (x86)/CloudVolumes/Manager/ppv/writable_template..."
[2015-1-30 15:31:32] P3488DJ INFO RvSphere: Connection to VMware Administrator@vcenter.vmwra.com succeeded - Took 219ms
[2015-1-30 15:31:35] P3488DJ INFO RvSphere: Connection to VMware root@esxi-123.vmwra.com succeeded - Took 156ms
[2015-1-30 15:31:36] P3488DJ INFO RvSphere: Copying 59392 KB thin lsiLogic disk at "[Datastore-Cluster1] cloudvolumes/writable...
[2015-1-30 15:31:39] P1132R60 INFO Started GET "/cv_api/jobs/pending?_=1417390299687" for 127.0.0.1 at 2015-1-30 15:31:39
[2015-1-30 15:31:39] P1132R60 INFO Processing by CvApi::/JobsController#pending as USER

Note: This log excerpt is an example. Date, time, and environmental variables may vary depending on your environment.


For example, you can identify a certain module in the App Volumes Manager log and find the corresponding PID.

[2015-1-30 15:26:31] P2728R36INFOStarted GET "/storages?_=14717390015761" for 127.0.0.1 at 2015-1-30...
[2015-1-30 15:26:31] P2728R36INFORADIR: Connection to AD ad.vmwra.com succeeded - Took 109ms
[2015-1-30 15:26:31] P2728R36INFOCompleted 200 OK in 125ms...

Note: This log excerpt is an example. Date, time, and environmental variables may vary depending on your environment.


###App Volumes Manager svmanager_server.log

The svmanager_server.log file captures App Volumes Manager server actions. You can correlate these actions with the Agent log files by checking time stamps from both the server and agent logs. The svmanager_server.log file also captures information relating to the App Volumes infrastructure.


##App Volumes Agent log files

The App Volumes Agent log files are:
* svservice.log
* svdriver.log
* svcapture.log – This log file is present only on a capture machine.

###Locations for Agent log files

In releases earlier than App Volumes 2.9, the App Volumes Agent logs are located at C:\Windows on the Agent machines. The svcapture.log file is also located at C:\Windows , on the capture machine.

For App Volumes 2.9 and later, the Agent log locations have changed.

The svservice.log file is located at C:\Program Files (x86)\CloudVolumesAgent\Logs on the Agent machines.

The svcapture.log file is located at C:\Program Files (x86)\CloudVolumesAgent\Logs on the capture machine.

The App Volumes driver log is now saved in ETL format, located at C:\Windows\System32\LogFiles\WMl\AppVolumesAgent.etl. To view the AppVolumesAgent.etl  file, you need to convert the ETL file to XML format.

To convert the ETL File to XML format, flush the buffers to the disk and then convert the ETL log to XML format.

To flush the buffers to the disk:
Open a command prompt from the App Volumes Agent machine. Go to Start > Programs, and click Command Prompt.
Run the command

logman update AppVolumesAgent -fd –ets

This command ensures that the Agent transaction data is saved to disk.

To convert the ETL log to XML format:
On the App Volumes Agent machine, go to Start > Programs, and click Command Prompt.
Run the command:

tracerpt.exe AppVolumesAgent.etl -of xml -gmt -tp "C:\Program Files (x86)\CloudVolumes\Agent\tmf" -o AppVolumesAgent.xml

You now have an XML file that you can open with MS Excel. For more information, see Microsoft TechNet article logman update trace command and tracerpt parameters.

Note: The preceding link was correct as of July 23, 2015. If you find the link is broken, provide a feedback and a VMware employee will update the link.


###Details on Agent log files

Here are details on the Agent log files:


svservice.log

SvService is the service responsible for communication between the App Volumes Agent and the App Volumes Manager, including the preparation of volumes, the running of post-attach scripts, refresh of variables, and registration of fonts. The log tracks this communication.


svdriver.log

SvDriver is a policy-driven driver file responsible for the virtualization of volume contents into the desktop OS. The policy file snapvol.cfg controls the files, directories, registry keys, and processes that are virtualized during application capture on each volume. The log tracks this activity.


svcapture.log

The SvCapture service performs provisioning and editing functions during application capture, such as generating policy files and metadata. The SvCapture reports this information to the App Volumes Agent and App Volumes Manager. The log tracks this activity and is available only on the capture machine.

For information to increase the logging level to debug, see Increasing Logging Level for AppVolumes Manager (2101668).


###ESXi logs

You can check the ESXi host management service log (hostd ) for disk locking, virtual machine state transition, and hot-add operations. The hostd.log file is located at /var/log/hostd.log on the ESXi server.

You can also check the virtual machine log (vmware.log ) for virtual machine-related activities, such as user logins to a desktop, or applications not appearing on a desktop. The virtual machine log is located at /vmfs/volumes/datastore/vm_name/vmware.log .

For more information, see Location of log files for VMware products (1021806).

For more information on troubleshooting an App Volumes environment using the log files, see VMware App Volumes log analysis tools and log analysis examples (2126475).